README.md, before:

# Cognigy Webchat Plugins
This repository contains example plugins for the [Cognigy Webchat](https://github.com/Cognigy/WebchatWidget).
Additionally, it contains a guide to get you started for plugin development.

## Introduction
This guide will help getting you started building cognigy webchat plugins.
While this page is focused primarily on basic concepts, you may want to jump in and [build a plugin](./docs/get-started.md), see some explanatory [examples](./docs/examples.md) or dive into the [API reference](./docs/api-reference.md).

- [Get Started](./docs/get-started.md) 
- [Examples](./docs/examples.md)
- [API Reference](./docs/api-reference.md)
- [Releases](./RELEASES.md)


## Plugin Concepts

### Display Types
#### Inline Message
By default, messages will get rendered `inline`, with an avatar next to it, aligned to the side of the message origin.

![Inline Message](./assets/message-plugin-inline.png)  


#### Fullscreen Message
Message plugins can utilize a 'fullscreen' mechanism that will render it fullscreen, filling out all the viewport of the webchat. This can be used to create dialog-like mechanics where the user's attention can be locked onto the next step.

![Fullscreen Message](./assets/message-plugin-fullscreen.png)

### Fullwidth Message
When displaying content that needs space and is not directly percieved as a message (such as images, event notifications, qr codes), a plugin can be configured to be displayed fullwidth, without an avatar, alignment and padding. 

![Fullwidth Message](./assets/message-plugin-fullwidth.png)


### Plugins as Middlewares

For every message, the webchat decides how to render it by iterating over all the registered message plugins.
Every plugin contains a mechanism that can decide whether it matches a message or not.
If a plugin matches a message, the webchat will stop iterating and use that plugin to render the message.

In the examples below, we have a total of five webchat plugins.
The webchat iterates through each plugin from left to right until it finds a match.
Outlined circles represent plugins that did not match, dark circles represent matched plugins, light circles represent plugins that were not taken into consideration.

![Plugin Message](./assets/plugin-chain-match.png)  

If no matching custom plugin was found, the webchat will fall back to its default message plugin (the last one).

![Default Message](./assets/plugin-chain-default.png)  

When a message is matched by a custom plugin that has the 'passthrough' option enabled, the webchat will render the message with that plugin and then continue iterating, making multiple outputs for a single message possible.

![Passthrough Plugin Message](./assets/plugin-chain-passthrough.png)

Commit message:

added input plugin type to docs

README.md, after:

# Cognigy Webchat Plugins
This repository contains example plugins for the [Cognigy Webchat](https://github.com/Cognigy/WebchatWidget).
Additionally, it contains a guide to get you started for plugin development.

## Introduction
This guide will help getting you started building cognigy webchat plugins.
While this page is focused primarily on basic concepts, you may want to jump in and [build a plugin](./docs/get-started.md), see some explanatory [examples](./docs/examples.md) or dive into the [API reference](./docs/api-reference.md).

- [Get Started](./docs/get-started.md) 
- [Examples](./docs/examples.md)
- [API Reference](./docs/api-reference.md)
- [Releases](./RELEASES.md)


## Plugin Concepts

### Display Types
#### Inline Message
By default, messages will get rendered `inline`, with an avatar next to it, aligned to the side of the message origin.

![Inline Message](./assets/message-plugin-inline.png)  

#### Input
If one needs to provide specific input text fields, the input plugin can be used. With this type, various input features can be implemented -- such as an auto-complete field. 

![Input](./assets/input-plugin-rule.png)


#### Fullscreen Message
Message plugins can utilize a 'fullscreen' mechanism that will render it fullscreen, filling out all the viewport of the webchat. This can be used to create dialog-like mechanics where the user's attention can be locked onto the next step.

![Fullscreen Message](./assets/message-plugin-fullscreen.png)

### Fullwidth Message
When displaying content that needs space and is not directly percieved as a message (such as images, event notifications, qr codes), a plugin can be configured to be displayed fullwidth, without an avatar, alignment and padding. 

![Fullwidth Message](./assets/message-plugin-fullwidth.png)


### Plugins as Middlewares

For every message, the webchat decides how to render it by iterating over all the registered message plugins.
Every plugin contains a mechanism that can decide whether it matches a message or not.
If a plugin matches a message, the webchat will stop iterating and use that plugin to render the message.

In the examples below, we have a total of five webchat plugins.
The webchat iterates through each plugin from left to right until it finds a match.
Outlined circles represent plugins that did not match, dark circles represent matched plugins, light circles represent plugins that were not taken into consideration.

![Plugin Message](./assets/plugin-chain-match.png)  

If no matching custom plugin was found, the webchat will fall back to its default message plugin (the last one).

![Default Message](./assets/plugin-chain-default.png)  

When a message is matched by a custom plugin that has the 'passthrough' option enabled, the webchat will render the message with that plugin and then continue iterating, making multiple outputs for a single message possible.

![Passthrough Plugin Message](./assets/plugin-chain-passthrough.png)
